# Bio-Pesticide-Startup
Market Segmentation analysis was done on Indian agricultural datasets to identify the best region and state for a Biopesticide startup to enter into the market in regards to their first release. Different factors were analysed through data visualisation and clustering for the company to make a choice based on their products. Biopesticides are crop protection products derived from natural sources that are used to control pests, pathogens and weeds by a variety of means. Biopesticides are generally grouped into two major categories: microbial and biochemical.
Microbial pesticides use living organisms such as bacteria, fungi, viruses, protozoans and yeasts.
Biochemical pesticides use naturally occurring, bioactive compounds that control pests by non-toxic mechanisms. These include plant extracts, semiochemicals/pheromones 
(organic compounds that organisms use to transmit chemical messages) and organic acids.
One of the main differences between bioactive crop protection products and conventional agrochemicals is selectivity. Conventional agrochemicals tend to be broadspectrum products that impact many different kinds of organisms. These products allow farmers to control numerous pests with one agrochemical, but can also negatively impact other nonharmful species in the environment. Biopesticides tend to be highly targeted to specific pests. Because they are so targeted, they are generally considered to be more environmentally friendly than synthetic agrochemicals. For example, Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), a bacterium commonly used as a microbial pesticide, comes in many different strains and subspecies, each of which kills one specific insect or a few closely related insect species. The protein each strain of Bt produces is highly specific to the target insect species, and harmless to other organisms (including humans and animals). 
With an ever growing population, the need of the hour in India is its extreme food necessity. The primary hindrance towards these needs is crop failure and pest infestation. 
Pesticides are substances that kill, repel, control or prevent pests from harming the crops. There are several categories of pesticides. They include herbicides for reducing the effects of weeds, insecticides for controlling insects that feed on the crops, fungicides to refrain any detrimental fungal growth and mildew, disinfectants for preventing bacterial infestation, and chemical compounds used to control mice and rats. The Indian pesticides market reached a value of INR 232 Billion in 2020. It is estimated that in the past few years, pests have eaten away approximately 20-25% of the total crops being grown. This requires severe measures to be taken in order to limit the amount of damage on the 
yield. Pesticides play a crucial role in protecting the crops and their importance has risen noticeably in the last few decades and is expected to grow moderately in the next five years. As mentioned previously, India’s increasing population needs to be supplied with an adequate amount of food. This is less likely to happen as the amount of cultivable land has been reducing due to climate change, urbanization, and bad agricultural practices. This area is expected to go down further. This puts us in a difficult situation if the pest infestation losses are not taken care of, keeping in mind the rising food demand.
